# Public-Safety-Mechanism
A short software/GUI that will enhance the chances of public safety when in danger of being attacked or threatened.

This prototype software can help someone who desperately needs help in a threatened state. He/She just needs to press a button, upon which, the software will be able to access the microphone of that person's smart phone, smart watch or any other smart device he/she is wearing. This will trigger the software to start recording all the nearby happenings and voices heard. At the same time, the software will fetch the locations of all the nearest Police Stations and display the datails and contact numbers of them on the person's smart device. At the same time, there are additional situations where the person cannot even call as our body takes time to process emergencies. Hence, our software wouldn't require that person to physically call that police station because it itself will start calling those police stations, one by one on loop.
As soon as anyone from any police station picks up the call, the audio which the software keeps recording will be played such that ther person in danger doesn't have to speak for help. The police officers can directly instigate the risk of the situation from the audio played. At the same time, all the police stations will have access to the location of the person from whom the call is coming, along with the most feasible route to reach that person.
Depending on the risk of the situation, help can arrive at a faster rate to that person.

**Additional Feature - Fake Call**
This prototype also has a feature of generating a fake call (used Twilio module for this) that can help a person overcome an unwanted social situation. If a person feels uncomfortable meeting someone in public or he/she doesn.t wan't to talk to a stranger who just approached, or even avoid talking to someone and leave the situation with an excuse, then with the press of a button, a fake call will be generated into the phone of that person. He/She can pretend to answer that call and avoid that situation.
